Percentage of women;
In this line graph we can observe the evolution of the percentage of women in the UK between 1970 and 2010, compared to the percentage of artist women in top charts of music in the same period of time. In the first two decades, the female representation in top artists lists increased by 10%, and then stabilized around 75% from 1981 to 2011. 

Gender proportion: 
This bar graph shows the percentage of women and men in the top 40 charts over 4 decades. We observe that female representation is greater than male between 1971 to 2011. From the 1970’s, the percentage of women increased by 10%, gaining ground over male representation.

We found that the percentage of female artists in the top charts has always been greater than men, and that the female percentage increased by 10% from the 1970s to reach 73% in the 1980s and plateaued at that throughout the rest of the decades. This observation differed from our expectations, given that we assumed there would be more gender disparities with women being underrepresented. Perhaps this could be because the timeframe we analysed is quite contemporary and reflects a fairly liberalised society as our timeframe does not go further back to the decades before 2nd wave feminism. 

Perhaps our results differed significantly from the 2018 University of Southern California study as we analysed weekly top 40 songs from Official Charts, whereas the USC study looked at Billboard’s year-end hot 100 chart. The difference in the unit of time examined could suggest that people listened to female artists whenever there was a new release that week, pushing the female artist’s’ song on the top charts for the week, whereas male artists were ultimately more popular over the course of a year, thus making it to the Billboard year-end chart. 

Birthplace/Country of Origin of artists:
These four bar graphs represent the percentage of artists from North America, the UK, Europe, Asia, Africa and South America in the top 40 charting artists from 1971 until 2011, separated in four groups of decades. 

We observed that North America and the U.K. artists dominate in the charts, resulting in an initial bubble map that had two extremely large circles which obstructed the other ones in the surrounding countries. 

During the first decade, North America slightly dominates over the UK, but in the following two decades, the UK takes over, and eventually, in the last decade, North America retakes its dominant place. The first switch of positions, takes place during the 1970’s and lasting until the late 1990’s. This could be due to the different rates of industrialisation and economic and technical development of both areas. The US, due to its economic predominance, enjoyed the benefits of globalisation before the rest of the world, establishing a cultural dominance reflected on popular music in other countries. But later on the UK caught up and its artists benefited from rapid economic growth. We can observe that during the 1980’s the percentage of artists from the UK is far greater than the percentage of US artists, and in the following decade the gap decreases, until North America takes the leading position again, with a greater gap than in the first decade. This might be the phenomenon of a stabilization after the boom of the UK popular culture. 

With regard to Europe and Oceania we observe that their position doesn’t vary, whereas the last three areas switch positions every decade. We associate this phenomenon with two causes; first of all, the relative stability and position of the popularity of European and Oceanian artists in the UK is probably because of the relations of the countries, much older than our data and therefore steadier. And second, the level of industrialisation of these areas was greater than in many other areas of the study, which favors its involvement in globalization. 
 
Asia, Africa and South America are not highly represented in the UK popular artists community. We can observe that during the first two decades, Asia is the fifth dominant area, which is probably due to the earlier industrialisation of some countries such as Japan, South Korea or Taiwan. Many countries in Africa were still in the process of decolonization, which stopped their cultures from spreading through the world and South American countries weren’t industrialized enough. In the following decades we can observe how African artists increase their popularity in the UK, and later on South American culture gains globalization. 
