Research question:
Has top-ranking popular music in the UK reflected increasing cultural globalisation? (1971 - 2011)

Intro
Popular music has historically been any non-folk music that acquired popularity amongst the masses. After the industrial revolution, technology and the increasing dominance of the middle classes allowed the democratisation of music increasing its audience and therefore giving way to the development of popular music. Nowadays, popular music is commercially orientated and aimed to a wide audience, and is usually written by known artists. [1] 

Aims of the Research
We are interested in what extent does popular music in the UK reflect change in society between 1971 and 2011. We would like to analyse how globalisation affects popular music consumption as borders around music are being erased due to accessible platforms like Spotify and Youtube. The recent success of foreign-language songs such as Despacito by the Latin-American artists Daddy Yankee and Luis Fonsi, and K-pop groups like BTS seem to mark a new era in which Western pop music is opening up its borders. Yet, the industry  lacks of inclusivity as it still has not fully caught up with global social movements such as internationalism and feminism. International genres of music, ethnicities and women remain underrepresented. 

Context and literature review

Influence of globalisation
A study regarding the extent to which the pop charts are globalized, between 1960 and 2010, seen from percentage of hits of foreign origin they contain, notes that during the first 20 years of the period, Norway, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and Australia had the the most globalised charts with 75% to 95% of foreign acts whereas the United Kingdom had one of the least globalised charts (mostly below 50% or 40%). however, after 1980 the pattern changes; the year 1985 is the first one in the sample of study in which the rise of the video clip and music television is observable and stirs globalization in almost every country, the United Kingdom leaves its old path and joins European countries in the influence of globalization. In contrast to this trend, the United States increasingly turn to their own music, hitting and all-time low of 8.8% foreign hits in 2005. 
Through the study of various charts of popular music, such as American, Dutch, French and German ones from 1965 to 2006, the question of whether and how the appreciation of popular music consumers has been globalised can addressed. Although no corroboration of an overall trend toward an internationalization of hits has been found, important shifts are noticeable underneath the surface; up until 1989, there is an increasing international diversity as well as Americanization. But since 1990’s national music’s popularity increases in some European countries. 

The sociologist Motti Regev has documented that the globalisation of the music industry has significantly transformed the music cultures of many countries worldwide for the last 50 years. National music industries have increasingly imported British and American products, while the latter have progressively opened sub-divisions abroad. This has been claimed to be part of the Anglo-American cultural and economic imperialism, which gave way to the imposition of their products abroad, increasingly influencing local trends and becoming the dominant conglomerates they are today. 
From the 1990’s the media audiences became less passive and able to appropriate cultural products in innovative ways. Globalization was no longer only about Americanization, but it became increasingly about creativity and new hybrid identities. 

Diversity in the music industry
Gender related studies
A study by Agnes Hovart, presented in 2019, provided evidence about gender inequality in the music industry. According to the study, “men release more songs than women, are signed to record labels more frequently and are aligned with more collaborators to produce music”. Female artists usually are in the periphery of collaboration networks, which constitutes a highly structural barrier. A 2018 study by University of Southern California found that of the 600 top songs on Billboard’s year-end hot 100 chart from 2012-2017, only 22.4 percent of artists were women. And amongst the 899 individuals who have been nominated for the last 6 Grammy ceremonies, 90.7 percent were men while only 9.3 percent were women. A study by La France et al. (2011) looked at gender and the Billboard top 40 charts between 1997 and 2007, and found that women chart less frequently, but when they do, they chart higher than men. They also noted that the gender inequality is greatest among group ensembles than solo artists, since the hit songs by male groups more than doubled that of female groups.
In 2016, women nearly represented a 50% in the music industry. However, in high-pay jobs (more than 100k per year) they represent a 27%, while in low-pay jobs(less than 15k per year) they represent a 60%. This shows the general misrepresentation of women in decisional and influencial positions in the industry. 

